Add motivation section including green computing info (#30)
carpentries-incubator/pando-python: index.md

<!-- TODO: course duration? -->
<!-- TODO: confident code syllabus? -->

## Motivation

Why might you want to profile and optimise your code?

> The simplest answer is that optimisation let you get results faster. It may also allow you to scale up your code to perform larger analyses that would otherwise have taken too long to be practical.

Reviewer: Hm … this is probably dependent on the target audience? I think for experienced software engineers, profiling becomes more about confirming that the performance matches expectations; but software performance is notoriously unintuitive—and especially so in a high-level language like Python, where you’d need to understand an additional layer of language implementation details to develop a decent intuition.

For the target audience of this course, I’d expect that most of them don’t have a well-developed intuition (yet—that’s part of what we try to develop in the optimisation section, after all!) … so I don’t think opening with this as the main motivation is a good fit.

> The simplest answer is that optimisation let you get results faster. It may also allow you to scale up your code to perform larger analyses that would otherwise have taken too long to be practical.

Reviewer: If we want to include this, I’d probably leave Liz’ writing unmodified and rather add a separate paragraph at the end—maybe framing it like “Even if you don’t find any major performance gains, this will be useful because … [confidence, better understanding, …]”

> Making your code faster can have additional benefits: faster software uses less compute power. If you use paid-for compute resources, such as cloud computing or some HPC facilities, optimising your code can therefore reduce your costs.

Reviewer 2: Trying to merge in the bit I had to strip out above.

```suggestion
Making your code faster can either enable larger analyses that would otherwise be impractical or reduce redundant computation. If you use paid-for compute resources, such as cloud computing or some HPC facilities, optimising your code can therefore reduce your costs.
```

Reviewer 2: true, "reduce your cost per unit of work", but that sounds shit.

Using less compute power also helps make your software more environmentally sustainable. As funders and research insitutions set Net Zero goals, and computationally-intensive research expands, sustainability is increasingly becoming a concern for researchers. Energy efficiency, alongside hardware efficiency and carbon awareness, is one of the key principles of reducing carbon emissions from software.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: callout

### Green computing

To find out more about sustainable computing, visit the [Green DiSC](https://www.software.ac.uk/GreenDiSC) website or see this [online training](https://learn.greensoftware.foundation/) from the Green Software Foundation.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

> However, it's sensible to focus your optimisation efforts on the parts of the code that take the longest. This is where profiling comes in: by profiling your code, you can identify which parts contribute the most to its runtime, and target these for optimisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it's sensible to focus your optimisation efforts on the parts of the code that take the longest. This is where profiling comes in: By profiling your code, you can identify which parts contribute the most to its runtime, and target these for optimisation.
```
Feel free to ignore if this is something where different style guides disagree, but I was taught to use sentence case after a colon if a complete sentence follows.
